The goal of this video is to show you how to find the minimum and maximum points of a set of numbers,
so vectors or matrices.
After a brief discussion in the slides, we will switch to Python and I'll show you how to implement
this and how to interpret the resulting functions in NumPy and in PyTorch.
Okay, so let's start with minimum and maximum.
It's pretty straightforward.
We have a set of numbers a collection of numbers here.
And minus one is the minimum.
It's the smallest value and four is the maximum.
Easy peasy.
Let's get to Argmin and argmax.
These might be unfamiliar to you.
The ARG here is for the argument of the minimum and the answer here.
The result is two, and here the result is five for Argmin and argmax.
Now that might initially seem a little strange, but actually what's going on is that min.
The min function finds the value, the smallest value, and Argmin finds the location at which the smallest
value occurs.
So here this answer is two because the minimum value is is located at the second position.
So this is the first second third fourth fifth.
So the fifth position in this list of numbers is the maximum.
So that's the difference between the minimum and the maximum.
Of course you have to be mindful here of the distinction between starting to count at one, which is
what we do in human language and also in math and in some other programming languages, versus indexing
where we start at zero.
In Python.
So if you're writing this in math, then the argument is two.
If you're writing this in Python, the argmax would actually be one because this would be index zero.
This would be index one.
And likewise this would also be four.
Mathematically, Manically.
argMax is often written something like this, where you have the argmax statement here, and then you
have F of X, or, you know, whatever the function is.
And then sometimes there's a variable underneath argmax, and this means that we are maximising over
x.
We are finding the positions in x at which this function is maximum.
So before switching to Python, I just want to give you a quick explanation of why we need to use argmax
in deep learning.
So let's say we have a convolutional neural network that we train to recognize stop signs.
So we train the model and then we give the model a particular image of this.
We give the model this picture and we record with the outputs.
And these are the outputs that we would get from pushing through the actual raw model numerical output
through the softmax function.
So this would be the result of the softmax.
So the model says probability of zero that it's a squirrel.
Uh, you know, all this stuff.
So then we say, uh, the stop sign it.
The model says, I think, you know, the probability of 0.8 that this is a stop sign.
So then we want to apply the argmax function to this vector of outputs.
Because this vector of outputs from the softmax from the model is going to be a vector that contains
these numbers.
But we want to know which label which category comes from these numbers.
So therefore we would use argmax of the model output given the input y is three.
And then we can look that up on our lookup table here.
And that tells us that the model gave the highest probability the maximum output for label three which
is a stop sign.
And this is just a little reminder that if we were actually doing this in Python, the the the real
output would be two, because this is index zero, index one and index two.
All right.
So that's a brief explanation.
Let's now switch to Python and I'll show you how to implement these functions.
As I mentioned I will show you in numpy and also in PyTorch.
So let's load in these libraries and first using numpy.
So I'm going to create a vector.
This is just a yeah it's just an array with a couple of numbers.
You can see this is the maximum value.
This is the minimum value.
So here I'm using the functions numpy dot min and numpy dot max.
So these two functions are going to find the the minimum value which is minus three and the maximum
value which is -40.
So just from these in fact I think I will comment out these lines of code here.
So this is just telling us that the minimum and maximum value are minus three and plus 40.
Now here just from these results from these functions here, we don't actually know where the minus
three is located.
Nor do we know where the 40 is located.
And that is what we do with Argmin and argmax.
So notice the functions look basically the same, but we have the arg for argument in front.
So let's see.
Let's print those out.
And now we see the min max indices are three and zero.
So the minimum is located at index 0123 and the maximum is at index zero one.
Okay.
And then yeah it's just printing out a little bit more confirmation.
The minimum value is three.
So here I'm indexing I'm not printing out the minimum value that I got from the numpy dot min function.
Instead I'm using min to index the element in vector v.
And yeah we also see that that is minus three for the minimum and plus 40 for the maximum.
Okay.
So that is for vectors.
Things start getting a little bit more complicated when we get to matrices, because when we get to
matrices, we can actually think about computing the minimum and maximum values over the entire matrix
as one collection of numbers, or as by the rows.
So the minimum value in this row, the minimum value in this row or column wise.
So we can talk about the minimum value in this column, the minimum value in this column and so on okay.
And so the way we distinguish that is with an optional second input into the min function.
So we write the input which is a matrix.
Now if we don't provide any additional inputs this is going to give us the minimum of the entire matrix
which of course is zero.
Here we are looking at the minimum over the first axis which corresponds to the rows.
So we find the minimum over the rows which corresponds to the minimum of each column individually.
I know that's a little.
It can be a little confusing at first, but you'll see in the output down here when I run this code,
we're going to.
This will make sense when when we look at the output okay.
So here we are printing out.
So here I'm printing out the matrix first.
That's that's here.
Then I'm printing out Minval one.
This is the minimum value of the entire matrix here.
Oops.
The minimum value of the entire matrix.
And here we have the minimum value across axis zero which means across the rows.
So there's three numbers because there are three columns.
So zero is the minimum value in the first column, one is the minimum value in the second column and
so on.
And here when we write min axis equals one then this gives us the minimum value across the columns which
means we get one value per row.
So zero is the minimum in the first row row and five is the minimum of the second row okay.
And obviously you know this is min but it would work exactly the same for Max.
Okay, and now we are applying the same procedure.
But this is arg min instead of just finding the minimum.
So here I run that code again.
Again this.
These numbers might look a little bit confusing at first, but this is telling us that the minimum value
of the entire matrix was at linear index zero.
So the first element in the matrix which is here, here we have the minimum value of each column.
So the minimum value of the first column is in position zero.
The minimum here is also zero.
And here we have one because the minimum value is in row index one okay.
And then this is for the other way around.
So that here we find that the minimum value in the first row is in position zero.
The minimum of the second row is in position two.
Okay.
Very nice.
So I hope that's pretty straightforward.
Again it gets a little bit tricky with matrices.
But whenever there's any doubt you can just create a really small matrix like what I've done here,
and work through the various inputs, and then you can just eyeball it and see which of these input
parameters you actually want.
Okay, now we get to PyTorch and things are going to start well initially with vectors.
Actually it's pretty much identical to numpy, except that we write torch dot the name of the function
instead of numpy.
So I'm not even going to take time to go through this.
This is really identical to to numpy.
This is when we're using a one dimensional tensor here or just a vector like this.
Now let's get to repeating this with matrices.
So again this is exactly the same matrix that I had earlier with numpy.
And now actually I'm going to start by just printing out min one.
So this is the minimum over the entire matrix.
We'll go through each of these lines in turn.
Okay.
So here we find that yeah this is just printing out the matrix again.
Again notice that because we've created this in PyTorch, this is not considered a numpy array.
Instead it is a two dimensional tensor.
A PyTorch tensor.
It doesn't matter.
The numbers are the same.
Okay, so here we see that the minimum is still when we take the minimum of with no second input.
So just the one input of the matrix or the tensor.
Then we get the same result as with numpy which is just the number zero.
Now let's check out what happens with min two.
So min two is the minimum over the or across the rows.
So for each column.
Now this is starting to look a little bit different.
Let's even go um let's let's check out the type of this data variable.
So type of min one.
Uh sorry I meant min two.
So here we see this is not a tensor.
This is a different kind of object that is specific to the min function.
And here you see as well it looks a little bit like a tuple, doesn't it?
It has the parentheses here.
And then there's two things.
There's two attributes inside this tuple.
One is called values and one is called indices.
So we can write out min two or we can access these.
You can see them here but we can access them by typing min two dot values and min two dot indices.
So now we can run all of this code.
So here we see these are the values that corresponds to this.
And here are the indices corresponding to this.
Now these numerical results are the same as what we got with numpy.
But the organization of the output is a little bit different.
It's just something you have to be mindful of.
As I mentioned before that PyTorch and numpy sometimes work really, really similar to each other and
sometimes they are a little bit different from each other.
So I just want to show you one more thing here.
We can access all of the methods and attributes of an of an object by typing the name of the variable
and then a period, and then on the keyboard you type tab.
So now we can see there's actually multiple properties that we can access here.
And here I showed you values and indices.
There's other things we can access as well.
I'm not going to really discuss any any of these other properties.
Mainly I just wanted to introduce you to using torch min.
And the important distinction here between PyTorch and NumPy is that when you use torch dot min with
an optional second input, it's also giving us the argument in indices as well as the values in this
object, which is the output of torch dot min.
So in this video I explained min max and the corresponding arg min max or the argument of the min max
functions, and importantly, how to compute them in NumPy and in PyTorch.